Case DIVD-2024-00030.md (#793)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: _cases/2024/DIVD-2024-00030.md

---
layout: case
title: "Zyxel NAS firmware - vulnerable to OS command injections"
author: Koen Schagen
lead: Koen Schagen

> excerpt: "OS command injection vulnerabilities are found in the firmware of the Zyxel NAS devices NAS326 & NAS542"

Reviewer: zover ik zie is het één command injectie, paar privesc en een persistence.
Misschien de zin herschrijven.

Unauthenticated command injection vulnerability is found in Zyxel NAS362 & NAS542.

researchers:
- Koen Schagen
cves:

> - CVE-2024-29972

Reviewer: Ik zou de andere cve's ook noemen.
We zullen scannen voor CVE-2024-29973. De andere vergen namelijk verdere exploitatie, wat we willen voorkomen.

- CVE-2024-29973
- CVE-2024-29975
product:
- Zyxel NAS326
- Zyxel NAS542
versions: 
- NAS326 - V5.21(AAZF.16)C0 and earlier
- NAS542 - V5.21(ABAG.13)C0 and earlier
recommendation: "If you have a any of the vulnerable firmware/software version on your Zyxel NAS device, please update it to the latest version."
patch_status: Released
status : Open
start: 2024-06-24
end:
timeline:
- start: 2024-06-24
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts researching the vulnerabilities."
- start: 2024-06-27
  end:
  event: "DIVD found a way to fingerprint vulnerable devices"
- start: 2024-06-27
  end:
  event: "First version of this casefile"
- start: 2024-06-27
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts scanning the internet for vulnerable devices"

#ips: 0

---
## Summary

> Serveral vulnerabilities have been found in Zyxel NAS devices NAS326 & NAS542. When exploited it's possible for attackers with network/internet access to get full access on the NAS device as a root user. Zyxel has linked {% cwe CWE-78 %} to two of the CVE's. This is related to 'Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ("OS Command Injection")'.

Reviewer: Ik zou de tekst nog iets uitbreiden, met het noemen van alle CVE's die gevonden zijn door outpost24

## Recommendations

Zyxel advises upgrading to the latest firmware version to benefit from the vulnerability fixes. On the versions below, the mentioned vulnerabilities have been fixed:

- NAS326 -> [V5.21(AAZF.17)C0](https://download.zyxel.com/NAS326/firmware/NAS326_V5.21(AAZF.17)C0.zip) (released May 10th 2024) 
- NAS542 -> [V5.21(ABAG.14)C0](https://download.zyxel.com/NAS542/firmware/NAS542_V5.21(ABAG.14)C0.zip) (released May 10th 2024) 

DIVD recommends that you do not have this device reachable from the internet unless it is absolutely nessecary. If this is the case, a firewall rule should be placed in front of the Zyxel NAS device so that it can only be accessed from trusted IP addresses so attackers will have no access.

## What we are doing

DIVD is currently working to identify vulnerable parties and notifying them. We do this by finding Zyxel NAS devices connected to the internet and verifying if the device is running the latest firmware version to be protected against the above described threats. The notifications will be sent to the party responsible for the ip address according to the whois database.

{% include timeline.html %}

> ## More information

Reviewer: Ik zou het bericht can outpost24 toevoegen aan de more information

---
layout: case

> title: "Zyxel NAS firmware - serveral vulnerabilities allow unauthorized root access"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Zyxel NAS - unauthenticated OS command injection"
```

author: Koen Schagen
lead: Koen Schagen

> excerpt: "OS command injection and Local Privilege Escalation vulnerabilities are found in the firmware of the Zyxel NAS devices NAS326 & NAS542"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Multiple vulnerabilities have been found in the firmware of the Zyxel NAS devices NAS365 and NAS542. Those vulnerabilities allow an unauthenticated attacker to get full root access to the device."
```

researchers:
- Koen Schagen
cves:
- CVE-2024-29972
- CVE-2024-29973
- CVE-2024-29974
- CVE-2024-29975
- CVE-2024-29976
product:
- Zyxel NAS326
- Zyxel NAS542
versions: 
- NAS326 - V5.21(AAZF.16)C0 and earlier
- NAS542 - V5.21(ABAG.13)C0 and earlier
recommendation: "If your Zyxel NAS device is running a vulnerable firmware/software version, please update it to the latest version."
patch_status: Released
status : Open
start: 2024-06-24
end:
timeline:
- start: 2024-06-24
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts researching the vulnerabilities."
- start: 2024-06-27
  end:
  event: "DIVD found a way to fingerprint vulnerable devices"
- start: 2024-06-27
  end:
  event: "First version of this casefile"
- start: 2024-06-27
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts scanning the internet for vulnerable devices"

#ips: 0

---
## Summary

> Serveral vulnerabilities have been found in Zyxel NAS devices NAS326 & NAS542. When exploited it's possible for attackers with network/internet access to get full access on the NAS device as a root user. As outlined in the Outpost24 blog (link below) several CVE's combined are needed to reach this state, like Python Code Injection, Local Privilege Escalation and Persistent Remote Code Execution vulnerabilities as reported in the assigned CVE's. During our scan we focus on CVE-2024-29973 to identify vulnerable devices with older firmware versions that include those vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several vulnerabilities have been found in Zyxel NAS devices NAS326 and NAS542. When attackers have line-of-sight to the NAS device through the internet or an internal network, they can potentially gain full root access. As outlined in the [Outpost24 blog](https://outpost24.com/blog/zyxel-nas-critical-vulnerabilities/), multiple CVEs are required to achieve this level of access, including a Python code injection, local privilege escalation, and persistent remote code execution.

At DIVD, we will primarily focus on CVE-2024-29973 to identify vulnerable devices. If CVE-2024-29973 is present, it indicates that other CVEs are likely present as well since they are all addressed in the same firmware update.
```
